[Music]
this morning I rocked up and this guy's
here we had a discussion over the
weekend that we're going to have a great
squad session this week and in my head I
was thinking Thursday because I squatted
last Thursday so I just assumed that
everyone knows my schedule and I turned
up and he's here ready to squat with me
last Thursday I squatted quite heavy and
I'm not ready to squat tonight but then
he's driven so at the same time I'm not
gonna let him down so so thanks Reece
we're squatting today and the plan was a
squat up so we're gonna have a stare
down at some point
and we're going to go head to head we're
gonna go head to head and we're going to
squat 300 kilograms for as many reps as
we can I'm not as strong as Reece but
I'm going to try and keep up and this is
this is anger this is this is an angry
session
I will be I'm actually not angry I'm
actually nervous and scared well last
time you got nine ribs in you and
vomited yeah so anyway so this is a
yucky session but I think I think I can
do about six reps on 300 kilograms what
do you think do you think you do ten
okay so let's see how we go today is it
okay if I just commit to one top set
yeah okay come and join us let's go what
about you Beth well I prefer woman I'm
allowed to say women I'm not allowed to
say we man because that makes sense
this is the barrel battle today I'm
quite nervous you know this is not at
all you came in ready this one
this is warmups this is good activation
means that means amnezia first describes
our cube one of my favorite shoes one of
the other ones is upright so that's a
rugby usually screaming of my like when
I'm standing behind race I'll try it I
don't know like sometimes it's like I
think about it after after I'm coaching
someone I'm screaming all these things
and then you're like yeah right so it's
like it's the noise it's the familiar
noise that you used to I guess my back
and lean forward yeah so I go back to
natural habits and they really work for
me
so approach better definitely works for
me like like no Academy up right like
that's the problem that's where I felt
like it's easy for you to use you strong
back but then when you use your strong
back you're not using the knee reps
anymore
don't knock ten reps oh god I'll use it
but it was weird last week when I
squatted I win the morning to do rock
sports I was gonna do like 300 for like
over this wire cutter 225 a foot too
heavy excited about my 85:12 I know what
does you want yeah yeah
so wraps was hard
there's no one ever simple you have to
step up
Beth did you see that comment on YouTube
someone asking that if you can post like
a 30 minute Walmart video you normally
do today we won't be doing that I'm
gonna do it another time yeah so we've
got my so what you will see today is
just bad so I just walked up and down in
all directions forwards backwards
sideways that's just using all the
muscles surrounding my hip joints that's
just waking them up does it make them
stronger it activates them so that when
I come to an empty bar I haven't done an
empty bus what yet so I just did
probably about five minutes walking up
and down with the bands that's why
little Ricci is doing now joints it's
not stretching it's mobilizing it's
loosening their hip capsule and then I
do my I am I'm exceptionally
do you mind doing a couple sets of that
cuz I'll do 74 2 sets after this so you
give me one set on empty bar it doesn't
matter when are you ready to do your
first set now I get my arms up when was
he last what they greased
some good-ass race you you set to empty
bar Alico bar
wrong best I actually feel really
nervous
you got the butterflies yeah actually
like no I'm not the butterflies I got
the jelly legs jelly lady I know I can
do it surrounded kilograms squat always
out any day because I don't
underestimate it's been four days since
my last session that was a pretty heavy
session it was a really heavy session
because it was a really good session 324
three reps I was really happy with it 16
weeks out from competition it is the
last time I did that I squatted 375 in
comp
eight weeks out from comp I did 324
three and I actually attempted the
fourth and so I know I didn't have a
fourth in me on that day yeah I don't
think I had a fourth in me on this house
either through is my limit
well to be fair anything think I had the
third rep in me nothing
hey cabbie do you remember that time my
322nd rep look like hell did I put the
bar down again hey you're proud thank
you
[Music]
first every see pirates to breathe for a
nice work
[Music]
right
we're schooling and it's like man I
wonder if anyone ever hit me up with
that how I'll feel
anyway this is how I would feel just a
little bit nervous once I know that once
they know that
[Music]
oh one 1/16
nice as a feeling that I reach there you
got the jelly legs at all I picked you
soon but it feels phenomenal yeah yeah
the kilograms one room
[Music]
look
nice work good try next do 20 Nick's
how's the feeling that's alright is
there a really comfortable if I'm being
completely honest okay not even after
all there's warmups yeah see that even
that warm-up was probably not as much as
I would normally do that's me kind of
rushing it a little bit as I said it was
an unexpected what they say all they
expect you to this take some time I
wanted to do this properly they'd rush
the warm-ups too much I still did my
warm-ups but normally I would do some
four activations as well which I
neglected you mean but even still I
think it's like my quads get pretty sore
it's something that I know with myself
I've had bursitis on on both sides
granted trochanteric bursitis so it's
basically the ITB runs over the top of
the sack that protects this bone and it
inflames it and my IT bees get pretty
tight and it's a very common pain
amongst a lot of squatters and the way
that I'm able to avoid it is to not
squat too frequently so not too heavy
too often every now and then like today
yeah I can do it yeah but if I kept it
like this if I squatted heavy every four
days that that wouldn't work so there's
a bit of discomfort but it'll go away
I know what it's I know what it's about
yeah as I get warmer as a way to get
heavier as the adrenaline increases when
I know I've got to be lifting more
weight that pain will completely go and
I'll be fine
I've agreed to just do one top set as
well today hey Beth can you take us
through what the spokes mechanism here
so this is this lifts the rack so
instead of having to lift the rack to
change the rack heights yeah we've
dropped this that does it for you so I'm
pumping it up so he's a different height
to me yeah he's setting he's on 12 and
I'm on 15 so when it comes back down to
15 so I'm that much lower than him which
in the scheme of things like we use a
very low rack like both of us when we're
using a low bus what we stand wider as
well and as the weight gets heavier it
pushes you body down and so on the first
weight on the first set it may seem like
that rack height is too low but then as
it gets heavier if you used like the
perfect rack like from an empty bar if
you use that same height on the top set
you won't be able to unwrap the way
which happens at some high level
competitions yeah we see some of the
best squatters in the world on their
unrack they're not used to the rack
height and they go to on rack and they
can't even unwrap their their heavy bar
off the off the rack because it's too
high it was low enough on the empty bar
but when there's weight on there pushes
your body down
[Music]
[Applause]
I think that I should warn you there's
something about the change we're
standing at the border where history is
made
we're cranking up the lights now so
everyone can see it's alright now we're
gonna make you believe it's about to get
go down
[Music]
[Applause]
in the rain
it's gonna be
go down we'll make the whole world hear
us
Soto your hands up high what about to
show you a fearless
[Applause]
[Music]
it's about to get clean
to go down
[Applause]
[Music]
thank goodness that is over tells a
little bit scary if I'm being honest I
kind of know I can spot 300 kilograms
but that's also not a PP but it's still
at this stage of my training it's a big
number
and I plan to do six reps with Reese
this Thursday it's Monday so I wanted to
have a little bit more time to prepare
myself mentally so it doesn't matter it
was the nice thing I'm actually grateful
the little review for other challenge to
me today come and check out the racy
here's the pin Reggie and then you have
to spot me out to it so that's kind of
that's kind of vomit session ah to be
honest with you that's only ones that
are talking up to the top set so a
normal session will consist of a little
bit more work than this but when we're
doing no much volume you know challenge
like that like I hate to hit challenge
once it'll do okay so 10 sets 10 reps
for AC six ribs all those hit hit
challenge yeah that's right no actually
I win I win I don't know how but we'll
just because it's usually I'm used to
using anything from barbell so because I
feel a code bar you made it all that
much nicer now just kidding
all the barbells are really good doesn't
really matter all the equipment we use
it's kind of the best you can get anyway
so that was a fun day
those are fun day thank you that we see
you know he might be little but he's
growing up
he's growing up really fast he's gonna
be big and strong one day he's gonna be
picking someone down Paris that's what
[Music]